Add Room encryption docs for Kotlin SDK (#393)
powersync-ja/powersync-docs: client-sdks/advanced/data-encryption.mdx

</Note>

For more details, see the [`sqlite3multipleciphers` README](https://github.com/powersync-ja/powersync-kotlin/tree/main/sqlite3multipleciphers) in the PowerSync Kotlin SDK repository.

> **Using encryption with Room:**

Reviewer: This looks good to me. But I wonder if we should put this as a section in the guide on using Room, since:

- this takes up way more space here in a collapsible with large paddings.
- it's not relevant for everyone using encryption.

So I think it might be better to move this to the page on Room, and add a link from here to that section perhaps.

Author: That makes sense. Will do that

When using PowerSync [with Room](/client-sdks/orms/kotlin/room), PowerSync wraps the Room database instead of opening its own connection. To use an encrypted database with Room, wrap an encrypted `PersistentConnectionFactory` in a `SQLiteDriver` and pass it to `RoomDatabase.Builder.setDriver`:

```kotlin
class PowerSyncConnectionFactoryAsSqliteDriver(
    private val powersyncFactory: PersistentConnectionFactory
) : SQLiteDriver {
    override fun open(fileName: String): SQLiteConnection {
        if (fileName == ":memory:") {
            return powersyncFactory.openInMemoryConnection()
        }

        return powersyncFactory.openConnection(fileName, null, false)
    }
}
```

> Depending on your target platform, pass an `AndroidEncryptedDatabaseFactory`, `JavaEncryptedDatabaseFactory`, or `NativeEncryptedDatabaseFactory` to the wrapper. The factory automatically installs the SQLite3MultipleCiphers extension — no manual setup required.

Reviewer: sqlite3mc is a fork, not an extension. But we should mention that the PowerSync extension gets loaded automatically, since it's a manual step with the default Room setup.

```suggestion
Depending on your target platform, pass an `AndroidEncryptedDatabaseFactory`, `JavaEncryptedDatabaseFactory`, or `NativeEncryptedDatabaseFactory` to the wrapper. The factory automatically installs the PowerSync SQLite extension, so you can skip the `loadPowerSyncExtension()` step.
```
